---
title: Your Audio...Through Video?
layout: post
post-image: "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jet8130/jet8130.github.io/master/assets/images/Cover4.png"
description: Video did not, in fact, kill the radio star
tags:
- music
- informative
- marketing
- streaming
- video
---
In between song releases, what do you do? It might be a question you’re asking, or maybe your answer is something like “work on the next song release.” It’s valid, but there’s just one problem: the more time there is in between releasing and marketing your songs, your fans are going to forget about you. They might have you followed on Spotify or Soundcloud, but by the time you show your face again they could be moved onto the next person. You can’t leave them twiddling their thumbs, expecting them to wait for you to come back. Consistent interaction is key.

This is where videos come in. They’re a great way to stay connected with your fans and attract even more while you’re working hard creating the next top hits. It’s like regular social media; people want to know what you’re doing! Keeping that connection through videos can help build a strong relationship between you and your buyers.

## Documenting Your Journey with Vlogs
It’s almost like a news release, a form of transparency. When you’re not releasing anything, your fans are probably wondering, “I wonder what they’re up to?” Video blogging is a great way to answer that question. Sharing simple videos like a snapshot of you working on your new song, or maybe a showcase of your instrument can mean a lot to listeners. It shows that you’re inviting them into your life, and you want them to be part of your musical journey. Videos can also be a great way to play up releases as your songs get closer to it. You can record samples or small parts of your songs and add an interaction portion. You can ask how people are feeling about it, if they’re excited for it to be released, or just general feedback about your music overall. Blogging in video format is fun and adds a personal touch to your brand.

## Involving Your Fans Through Live Streaming
I actually found one of my favorite EDM artists through a Twitch stream. They were friends with a lot of Youtubers and streamers that I was watching at the time, and I found out they do streams as well. So, I decided to pop into their stream one day. I fell in love with the amount of interaction that they had with their viewers and their fans. They talked about their songs, favorite artists, and it was a personable experience. While it was a personal environment, it also felt like I was literally at a concert without all the pains and aches of a concert. No having to pay tickets, no getting in line in the freezing cold or scorching hot weather. I didn’t have to dress up, I didn't have to think too much about transportation, and I didn’t have to make it a whole day event. I could just sit down at my computer and experience them playing and talking about their music. 

Offering that kind of experience to your listeners is not only free, but it can make your fans feel closer to you. They can get to know you on that personal level, have instantaneous two-way communication, and enjoy a free virtual concert. It’s a win-win, really. 

## A Mutual Investment
Taking the time to make videos for your buyers can get them involved in your work, and when they’re involved, they get invested. Having a close relationship with your fans can last for years, maybe even for your entire career. How cool would it be to hear a fan say “I watched you grow from a small artist on YouTube to going on your first tour”? It sounds like a dream, but that dream can be your reality. 

### References
Scott, D. M. (2022). The new rules of marketing & PR : how to use content marketing, podcasting, social media, AI, live video, and newsjacking to reach buyers directly (Eighth Edition). Wiley.